Hello everybody and welcome.
By the end of this section will learn how to control the frame rates of our animation.
As you can see here as the ball drops the animation picks up speed and slows down again as it gets the
top.
So let's go of course into Give now where I can show you how to achieve this.
Just before we get over into game splits have a look at the different layer options that you can do.
And then we're hop into guimpe and see how to actually use them themselves.
So here's a little chart that I put together.
First of all you've got the type that you have.
So first of all you can actually change the milliseconds the amount of time that the frame will be showed
for.
And this can be incredibly useful if you do need to delay a frame or show it for longer on the screen
for perhaps dramatic effect or even shorten it to make something pass quicker without having to necessarily
move your images about to compensate for perhaps a slight judder in your animation.
Now the next two options combine and replace can be used one or the other.
So you may combine which mixes the current frame with the one before and this is useful for our followers.
So if you put a dot on the screen on one layer with an Outward Bound background and then the dots on
the next layer when you combine it you will end up with an animation that consists of one frame of a
single dot and then one frame with two dots if you happen to have used replace you will end up with
a single dot on each frame.
Now finally the order matters as do the brackets and the spacing.
So recommended an example here you would have the layer name itself.
You don't have to have a space between that and these control options.
These parameters you can put in but I would recommend that just for readability.
However if you are using both the time that the frame will be showed and either combine or replace there's
no space between the brackets themselves so will need to be exactly as you see here.
Now if you want to you can omit replace or combine or you can omit the timing itself and then it will
go to the default unspecified timing when your doing the export so you can see you have lots of options
a control as to what you do.
Let's go over into gimp now and see how that's applied.
Okay welcome back over into gimp.
Now usually we go ahead and create an image.
But what I will do this time round is actually go ahead and open up one I've already made.
So in this case just go and open up the challenge from the last lecture.
So we've got our bouncing ball with 10 layers.
The 10 frames that we made and we exported it to two seconds.
Now in this particular case these are all unspecified I've got no parameters on them.
But what we can do is take the layer the original layer itself and on the end.
Let's say I put open brackets at a thousand milliseconds which is one whole second and close the brackets.
Now what we will see here is when we go to our filters animation and playback when we press play the
1. will stay there for a whole second before the rest of the frames play so we can start adjusting our
animation itself.
Now this is a manual process that will take you time and optimization if you wanted to do this.
Now what we can also do is type in let's say here are by default at the moment is just whatever you've
got set here.
So we go play back and we've got 10 frames per second here that will last one second because it specified
but the others will play back at a hundred milliseconds each.
If we up that to 60 that first frame will still be a whole second because that is a specified time.
But all the rest would be 16 milliseconds or thereabouts.
A switch that back down to 10 and just close them down for the moment.
Okay so back here what we can do is on Layer 1.
For instance we can go ahead and say this one's going to be replace.
Now what that will do is it will remove the next layer or the previous layer and just add that one there.
So when we go ahead and play back that you'll see the first dot actually disappear.
But all the others will then appear.
So go ahead and click play.
We can see that the first dot disappears and then the rest come in.
So if you were going further up and perhaps when it hits the ground all the previous one so was the
ground strike the ground strike is layer 5.
If I go ahead and press replace there it will then start afresh.
From that point in all the previous ones will disappear and again we can demonstrate that by going to
the animation and playback and when we press play.
You can see that the first bit comes down and disappears.
Now you could use this to make a trail that affects you know after a certain amount you drop it and
started again.
That's absolutely fine and this is a great way of specifying to replace a frame with out having to make
the background white for instance.
Now in this case there is no background that's absolutely fine.
But if I was to go down to to the very bottom and create a new layer and just call this background for
the moment because that's essentially what it would be.
I could have specified it to be white at that point.
I would just do that now by filling it in.
Now if we go ahead and do the animation and playback.
We see that as we step through because it's replaced frame to yet I've put it in the second one because
it's replaced it doesn't persists.
By the time you reach in this case framed three the background itself would disappear.
So this is when labour groups can come in handy but we'll deal with that in a bit.
So let's go ahead and just see what that looks like.
Just to confirm.
So white that's fine.
Comes on disappears and then resets makes the others disappear afterwards.
That's fine.
Now by default because these are on a alph for life.
They are naturally combining.
Now when we go in export our actual animation that we've made as a gift them just come overwrite my
test animation again exports replace.
This is where we can change the settings for anything that is un specified.
That's important So here the hundred milliseconds that means that every frame that doesn't have any
millisecond like this layer here with a thousand milliseconds everything else will be play back a hundred.
If we go down and just use the scroll wheel to change that each frame despose aware unspecified So at
the moment it will replace everything unless I've told it to combine as those only those two options
and you can see here I don't care.
Chance means that it's going to listen to what is written here.
Now what you can do these two check boxes underneath We've briefly talked about them before but this
basically means you can override both the frame time specification and also whether or not any disposal
or combination has happened to the previous frame.
If you wanted to entirely up to you how you manage that's of course in it would differ depending on
what outputs you were trying to achieve.
And of course we can go ahead and export that if we wanted to at the end.
So finally what I want to do here before I export or anything else is go to file and save as because
what I don't want to do at the moment is overwrite my original bouncy ball with the changes I've made
so save as and again I'm going to put this one in here ankled it's five in this case because I'm on
the fifth lecture an umbilical a bouncing ball.
But I'm going to call it varied.
And you can probably see I've already done that one just to check for all of this works.
So replace that.
And there we go.
I've got a new file now that I'm working on.
And of course this leads us nicely up to a challenge and your challenge is going to be to use a copy
of the last lectures works who got the bouncing ball there.
Make sure the animation is 10 frames long in total and then have the ball increase speed as it falls
to the ground and decrease has it ascends again.
Now as always there's going to be more than one way to do this but this time round I'd like you to do
this by adjusting the frame timing and not adjusting the image.
Finally export it as an animated gif and share it with us over in the discussions pause the video now
and give that a go.
Okay everyone welcome back.
Let's go ahead now and have our ball accelerate or at least appear to accelerate as it goes towards
the ground and decrease as it goes up again.
Okay so back overing guimpe.
We've got a little bit of typing to do in this case.
I'm going to export them all replace anyway so I don't need to add to replace or change any of those
around.
But we're going to have it increasing speed as it drops and comes back up again.
Now the challenge specifications said not to move our balls about even though I've kind of space them
in a falling manner any way where they appear to get faster.
We can exaggerate that now by adjusting the frame timing.
So the first layer a whole second is just too long.
I'm going to guess here maybe 250 milliseconds.
So it's a bit delayed at the beginning and then picks up speed more rapidly.
Of course we need to watch our timing here as well as we go downstairs and get too long.
So this one I'm just going to do a simple deduction as we go.
I'm going to replace the Replace with 200 milliseconds and so forth.
As we go up and I'll see you guys back in a moment when I finish typing this in.
Okay so I'm just coming to the end of this here and a couple of things that you can bear in mind as
it's coming back up again is that it can be a little slow in fact in this case I am just doing 50 for
this sake of just being easy you can adjust these to any values that you want of course and it's going
to be a bit slower at their end frame there and with the background frame that is there any way it's
not needed to be there.
Sometimes you will get an error message like this up.
And I think it's because I've got our animation playbacks in the background still running on another
screen.
There it is.
There's that one and there's another one lurking about my fault for not shutting it down whilst adjusting.
So in this case I can just click okay and close these two down.
Now I can go into filter's animation and just check it with a playback feature and move this a bit more
central and go ahead and press play.
Then we should see it's beat up comes down and bounces back up again.
In this case that's absolutely fine that's exactly what we wanted to achieve.
And then finally of course we go ahead and export that.
So export as I'm going to call this bouncing ball varied that's apsey Final going to hit exports and
Giff that's what we want.
Finally as an animation Yes at loop forever why not so we can just repeat the animation delay between
the frames were unspecified.
Well these are all specified anyway so that value is irrelevant framed disposal where unspecified.
Now in this case I have not specified any of these to be replaced so if I just export it it they would
build up on top of one another and leave a trail.
That's not what I want to do in this case.
I do want to make sure that one frame per player.
So it's replaced used to lay a bone end to the buzz.
No I don't need to change that.
I could do that if I wanted a smooth animation again where it is all a hundred milliseconds each.
Because that's what is unspecified timing up here.
Use disposal entered above for all frames now because this is not got any specified ones I also don't
need to check that I've just lost my dialogue box.
There it is.
So let's go ahead hit export and then finally check that.
So here we go and back in my animation director in here we have my bouncing ball varied to double click
it and just check to make sure it's working.
That is exactly what I wanted.
How did you guys get on.
Did you experiment with different timings than what I've done.
I'd love to see your results.
Please share with them in the discussions and I will see you in the next lecture.